EXHIBIT M4

STATE OF OKLAHOMA
OKLAHOMA INDIGENT DEFENSE SYSTEM
ATTORNEY CLIENT MAIL - PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL
January 12, 2023

Dallas Christian Norton
Cleveland County Jail
2550 W. Franklin Road
Norman, OK 73069

RE: Cleveland County Case No. CF-2019-1273
Court of Criminal Appeals Case No. F-2022-746

Dear Mr. Norton:

The Oklahoma Indigent Defense System (OIDS) has been appointed to represent you in the direct appeal of Cleveland County Case No. CF-2019-1273, which is on appeal in Court of Criminal Appeals Case Number F-2022-746. Your case has been assigned to me here at OIDS. I just received your in-house file earlier this week. An investigator will also be assigned here at OIDS to assist me with your case. I apologize that you have written 3 previous letters to OIDS without having had anyone answer you or contact you about your appeal.

Enclosed with this letter is an Information Sheet which should answer general questions you might have about the appellate process. This appeal is not a new trial on the merits. A criminal appeal reviews all of the district court proceedings to determine if any errors occurred there. I do not have very much detailed information about your case yet, and won't know those details until I have time to review the records and transcripts from your district court case. Due to a ruling by the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals in Tiger v. State, 1993 OK CR 43, 859 P.2d 1117, and District Court Rule 26, 12 O.S. 2011, Ch. 2, App., transcripts received by this office cannot be mailed to you. However, I can mail a copy on a disk to someone for you. (See below.) Note, I also have one case on my docket before yours. Each case will get as much time as necessary to fully represent each of my clients. I will represent you in that same manner, ensuring that I spend as much time as needed to handle your appeal.

If you can provide me with the exact location/address where these incidents allegedly occurred it would be helpful to your case. Furthermore, if you are or were a registered member of any federally recognized Indian tribe, that might be also help your appeal depending on the location of the incident.

I have read the letters you have written giving OIDS permission to speak to your parents, Tom & Darla Norton, about your appeal. Your mother called today. I will be sending her a copy of your appellate record (all of the district court transcripts, exhibits, & files) on a disk as soon as possible. I also saw where you listed specific concerns you have about this case. I will review those in detail when I begin working on your appeal.

I have huge concern for you in this case. With 2 counts of lewd molestation of a child under 12 years old, if found guilty, you can never be sentenced to less than 25 years on each of those counts. If you were given relief and had a new trial, you could receive two, consecutive life sentences. You were already given the minimum of 25 years on each count, with the judge suspending 7 years of 25 years in Count 1, and also suspending all 25 years of Count 2. If you continue to pursue this appeal, and you are given a new trial, if convicted you could possibly receive TWO LIFE SENTENCES.

Please keep this office advised of your location and full mailing address at all times so that we can contact you. When you are moved from the county jail and processed by the Department of Corrections and assigned to a facility, please add my name to your telephone list to allow for telephone communication to proceed as easily as possible. Finally, please notify my office immediately if you are moved from one DOC facility to another. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me.

Yours truly,

Virginia Sanders
Virginia Sanders, Appellate Defense Counsel

cc: Information Sheet, Notice of Assignment

CAPITAL POST-CONVICTION DIVISION • P.O. BOX 926 • NORMAN, OK 73070 • (405) 801-2770 • FAX (405) 801-2784