
ORDER DENYING PETITIONER'S APPLICATION FOR POST-CONVICTION RELIEF

On June 30, 2025, the Petitioner filed his initial Post Conviction Relief Application, which exceeded the page limit. The Court ordered the Petitioner to conform to the Rules of the District Court on July 24, 2025. On October 7, 2025, Petitioner filed his next application and brief together with an appendix comprised of 107 pages of quotes from Voir Dire and Closing Argument that allege objectionable content and prosecutorial misconduct.

An appendix contains exhibits supplementing the brief, including transcripts and any other exhibits deemed necessary to support the application and referenced in the brief. The Petitioner's appendix is styled as an appendix but includes his objections to what he claims his trial counsel should have done at trial. However, during the trial, there were many opportunities for trial counsel to approach for a bench conference and make a record as to the line of questioning or the comments made during the closing argument. Petitioner's trial counsel did that, and the Court
allowed the State, during closing argument, to rebut the statements by the Defense in their closing argument. The appendix also suggests that the Court must reverse rulings it made during the trial. However, the Court of Criminal Appeals has already affirmed the rulings and actions by the State in its Summary Opinion. By adding more than 100 pages of his own objections, Petitioner is not using the appendix properly and attempting to do what his trial counsel already did during the trial.

The Petitioner's appendix is in violation of the District Court Rule No. 16(C) limiting the number of pages, and could be stricken or not considered pursuant to Rule 16(G), however, the Court will address the merits of Petitioner's Application.
The Petitioner submitted the instant Application for Post-Conviction Relief on October 7, 2025, raising the following claims of error:

 * A: Appellate Counsel was constitutionally ineffective, resulting in a constructive denial of counsel under United States v. Cronic.
 * B: In the Alternative, Appellate Counsel's Deficient Performance in Failing to Raise Numerous Meritorious Claims Requires Reversal Under Strickland v. Washington.
 * C: The Cumulative Effect of Appellate Counsel's Numerous Deficiencies Deprived Petitioner of a Fair and Meaningful Direct Appeal.
 * D: Petitioner is Factually Innocent.
 * E: Petitioner's "Appendix".

The Post-Conviction Procedure Act, Title 22 O.S. §1080, et seq., is neither a substitute for a direct appeal nor a means for a second appeal. Maines v. State, 1979 OK CR 71, 597 P.2d 774, 775-76; Fox v. State, 1994 OK CR 52, 880 P.2d 383, 384. The Post-Conviction Procedure Act is strictly limited and does not allow for litigation of issues available for review at the time of direct appeal. Castro v. State, 1994 OK CR 53, 880 P.2d 387, 388.

The doctrine of res judicata bars review of issues that were previously raised and ruled upon; issues that were not raised previously on direct appeal, but which could have been raised, are waived for further review. Logan v. State, 2013 OK CR 2, 3, 293 P.3d 969, 973 (citing 22 O.S. 2001, § 1086; King v. State, 2001 OK CR 22, 14, 29 P.3d 1089, 1090; Webb v. State, 1992 OK CR 38, 6, 835 P.2d 115, 116, overruled on other grounds; Neill v. State, 1997 OK CR 41, 7 n.2, 943 P.2d 145, 148 n.2).

An exception to this rule exists where a court finds sufficient reason for not asserting or inadequately presenting an issue in prior proceedings or "when an intervening change in constitutional law impacts the judgment and sentence." Bryson v. State, 1995 OK CR 57, 903 P.2d 333, 334; 22 O.S. 2001 § 1086. Sufficient reason for failing to previously raise or adequately assert an issue requires a showing that some impediment external to the defense prevented the petitioner and counsel from properly raising the claim. Johnson v. State, 1991 OK CR 124, 823 P.2d 370, 373. "Petitioner has the burden of establishing that his alleged claim could not have been previously raised and thus is not procedurally barred." Robinson v. State, 1997 OK CR 24, 937 P.2d 101, 108.

In the instant case, each of Petitioner's arguments were, or could have been, raised on direct appeal, excluding his claim of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel. Petitioner does not offer this Court any reason for failing to previously assert these issues. Petitioner acknowledges that his claims have been waived and attempts to assign blame to his appellate counsel. These are not grounds to override the waiver or res judicata implications of reraising these issues in post-conviction as a second appeal. Therefore, consideration of Petitioner's propositions of error are barred by the doctrine of res judicata and waiver.

The Court of Criminal Appeals has stated that where a claim is procedurally barred, there is no need to address the merits of the issues presented. Boyd v. State, 1996 OK CR 12, 915 P.2d 922, 924. The Court stated:

> In the case sub judice, Petitioner was afforded an opportunity to pursue a direct appeal; he specifically declined to do so. As a result, he is bound by that earlier decision; as a consequence of that decision, he has forfeited his right to have this Court consider [issues], which would have been readily available for that direct appeal. Wallace v. State, 1997 OK CR 18, 935 P.2d 366, 370 Therefore, the allegations of error, specifically ineffective assistance of trial counsel, new evidence, and lack of due process raised by Petitioner are denied as a matter of law. However, this Court also finds that Petitioner's claims are without merit. Petitioner claims that he was constructively denied appellate counsel under United States v. Cronic. Appellate counsel filed a brief and the State responded to that brief, and the Court of Criminal Appeals ruled on it; there was no actual breakdown of the adversarial process. The proper standard to measure assistance of counsel is "reasonably effective assistance". In Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668, 104 S.Ct. 2052, 80 L.Ed. 2d 674 (1984), the United States Supreme Court set out the proper standards for measuring effective assistance of counsel in a two-tier test.

First, Petitioner is required to show that counsel's performance was deficient under prevailing professional norms, and that but for the deficient performance, the outcome of his case would be different. This requires a showing that counsel made errors so serious that counsel was not functioning as the counsel guaranteed a defendant under the Sixth Amendment.
Second, Petitioner must show that the deficient performance prejudiced his defense. This requires showing that counsel's errors were so serious as to deprive a defendant of a fair trial, a trial whose result is reliable. See also Workman v. State, 824 P. 2d. 378 (Okl. Cr. 1991). Furthermore, a defendant must overcome the presumption that, under the circumstances, the challenged action might be considered sound strategy because this court will indulge a strong presumption that counsel's conduct falls within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance." Strickland, 466 U.S. at 689, 104 S.Ct. at 2065.

A thorough review of the record reveals that Petitioner's arguments fail to overcome the first prong of the Strickland test. Petitioner's trial counsel was competent and acted as a reasonable competent attorney under the facts and circumstances of this case. Trial counsel cross-examined witnesses and submitted evidence during that cross-examination. Trial counsel raised objections to questions or evidence that was potentially prejudicial to the client. This court indulges "a strong presumption that counsel's conduct falls within the wide range of reasonably professional assistance", Strickland.

Petitioner's allegations that trial counsel failed to adequately prepare, have a trial strategy, and call sufficient witnesses are not persuasive. Caselaw makes it abundantly clear that these conclusory allegations do not form the basis for ineffective assistance. "Conclusory allegations, standing alone will never support a finding that an attorney's performance was deficient. Smith v. State, 955 P.2d 734, 738 (Okl. Cr. 1998); see also, Perry v. State, 853 P.2d 198, 203 (Okl. Cr. 1993) (generalized claim of ineffectiveness for failing to file motions insufficient to meet burden under Strickland); Trice v. State, 912 P.2d 349, 355 n.24 (Okl.Cr. 1996) ("bare allegations of defense counsel's unpreparedness do not support a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel"); Boyd v. State, 839 P.2d 1363, 1373 (Okl. Cr. 1992) (generalized claim of inadequate investigation and preparation and failure to file unspecified motions insufficient to establish claim of ineffective assistance).

Petitioner's appellate counsel also meets the Strickland test of reasonably effective assistance of counsel. Appellate counsel carefully selected legal issues to be raised on appeal, and the Appeals Court denied relief. Petitioner alleges that his appellate counsel: (1) constructively denied him the right to counsel under Cronic, (2) did not provide the brief to Petitioner before filing, and (3) failed to cite the record, resulting in claims being barred.

Petitioner cannot succeed on his first complaint that he was appointed 4 different appellate counsel. While he did have multiple public defenders who represented him, a brief was filed in the appeal, and mere turnover or replacement of counsel does not amount to ineffective assistance of counsel.

Second, a failure of appellate counsel to provide the brief to the Petitioner before filing does not constitute a deficient performance of appellate counsel in violation of the Petitioner's Constitutional rights.

Third, Petitioner claims appellate counsel's failure to correctly cite all alleged instances of prosecutorial misconduct in the closing argument rises to the level of a constitutionally deficient representation. But Petitioner's allegations are not supported by the facts or the law.

Petitioner's claims of factual innocence are without merit, and his claims are best styled as evidence he would've liked to have admitted during his trial. It is improper for this Court to reconsider Petitioner's factual innocence with evidence not presented during trial and not preserved in the record. A review of the exhibits and testimony Petitioner seeks to introduce shows that it's neither new evidence, as it was known of at the time of trial, nor inadmissible as it is not relevant to the allegations in the case. This Court must defer to the judgment the jury arrived at after deliberation with all the evidence before them, and consideration of the jury instructions, including the credibility of witnesses.

Petitioner also alleges that he was denied due process of law because of the evidence deemed inadmissible in his trial and his trial counsel's performance. These issues were raised on direct appeal and affirmed by the Court of Criminal Appeals and shown to be wholly without merit. Additionally, Petitioner has failed to provide


this Court with any showing of prejudice beyond mere conclusory statements. Due process claims have previously been adjudicated, and this Court will not disturb them. Aside from the ineffective assistance of appellate counsel claim, the Petitioner's claims are barred by the doctrine of waiver and res judicata. Petitioner admits in his brief that these claims are waived but attempts to overcome waiver and res judicata with an ineffective assistance of appellate counsel argument. However, appellate counsel raised these arguments in the appeal that was denied by the Court of Criminal Appeals. Thus, consideration of his ineffective assistance of appellate counsel claim is procedurally barred and is also without merit.

IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED THAT the Petitioner's Application for Post-Conviction Relief is hereby Denied.
It is so ordered this 13th day of February 2026.

(Signature)
THE HONORABLE THAD BALKMAN
JUDGE OF THE DISTRICT COURT
Would you like me to convert this text into a downloadable Word (.docx) or PDF file for your records?

